Welcome to my analysis of the character interaction networks of Star Wars Episodes IV and VII!

A [blog post]() and a [Wired magazine blog
article](http://www.wired.com/2016/03/mapping-star-wars-force-awakens-characters)
provide details and interpretation of the project.  Here I'm documenting my
work.

## The data

### Interaction networks

The interaction networks for 4 and 7 were obtained from Evelina Gabasova's
[Github
account](https://github.com/evelinag/StarWars-social-network/tree/master/networks).
They were generated by a program that linked characters together who appeared
in the same scene with one another.  Only speaking characters (and R2D2 and
BB-8) were included. 

The interaction networks I used are in the files:
	
  - `data/starwars-episode-4-interactions.json`
  - `data/starwars-episode-7-interactions.json`

You can find these in edgelist format (which is how I worked with them) at

  - `swmapping_wired/interactions_4.edges`
  - `swmapping_wired/interactions_7.edges`

### Character mapping

I tried a lot of different approaches to aligning the networks.  The results
that feature in my final analysis (in my blog and the Wired blog articles) can
be found in `swmapping_wired/character_mappings.txt`

In this file, the first column is Episode 4, the second column is Episode 7.

Notably, not all characters appear in the character mapping.  When a character
doesn't have a mapping, this just means that the algorithm didn't find a good
match for it in the network.

## How the mapping was done

I used the C-GRAAL network alignment method.  There are many alignment methods
out there, all with pros and cons.  C-GRAAL felt very well suited to this task
because it was guided entirely by the presence of edges.  Many other methods
assume that the networks contain specific kinds of things (e.g., proteins,
genes) and so they make assumptions that simply don't make sense on a character
interaction network.

## Running the analysis

To run the analysis, you'll need a couple tools/libraries:

  - Python 2.7
  - [eXpressive Pipelines (xp)](https://github.com/druths/xp)
  - [C-GRAAL network alignment tool](http://bio-nets.doc.ic.ac.uk/C-GRAAL/)

Once you have these, you can run

	xp run net_alignment.fx cgraal_align_nosim

The results will be generated in `net_alignment_data`.

## Questions

I had a lot of fun doing this analysis and would love to hear thoughts,
critiques, and ideas.  Please [email](mailto:druths@networkdynamics.org) me!
